## How do you optimize a website's performance? What tools and techniques do you use?


### Optimizing with Next.js

**Automatic code splitting:**

Next.js automatically splits code into smaller chunks, loading only the necessary JavaScript for each page, reducing intial page load times.

**Server-Side Rendering:**

Server components enable server-side rendering of React components, reducing client-side computation and improving intial page load times.

**Image Optimization:**

Utilize Next.js's build Image Component to optimize images by serving them in modern formats like WebP and lazy-loading them by default.

**Reducing Client Bundle Size**

By offloading work to the server, Server components helps reduce the client bundle size, leading to faster page loads and improved performance on client devices.


### Optimizing with TailwindCSS

**Purge Unused Styles**

Enable TailwindCSS's built-in purge features to remove unused styles from your production build significantly reducing the CSS file size.

`tailwind.config.js`

```js
module.exports={
    purge: ['./src/app/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}', './src/components/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}']
    //other config
}
```

**Optimize Configuration**

Customize TailwindCSS configuration to include only the required modules and variants, further reducing the generated CSS file size.

**Responsive Design**

Utilize TailwindCSS's responsive utility classes to create a mobile-first design without writing custom media queries, ensuring a responsive and optimized design across devices.

**Utility-First CSS**

Use TailwindCSS's utility-first approach to minimize the number of custom styles and reduce the overall CSS file size, improving load times.
 